Question 1 = Can Javascript directly connect to database ? 
Answer : NO . 
Question 2 = Which is not a data type of javascript ?
Answer : float .
Question 3 = which symbol is used for single line comment in javascript?
Answer : //.
Question 4 = What will typeof null return?
Answer : "Object"
Question 5 = how we can make immutable object in javascript ?
Answer : var user = {name:"farhan"} ; Object.freeze(user);
Question 6 - Operator & expression what will 2 + "2" evaluate to?
Answer : "22"
Question 7 - which operator is used for strict equality in javascript?
Answer : ===
Question 8 - what does !!"false" evaluate to?
Answer : true, beacuse the first ! make it boolean false and next ! make false to true .
Question 9 - What is the result of 5 == "5" ?
Answer : true, beacuse  
Question 9 - What is the result of "5 "=== " 5" ?
Answer : false , beacuse of space .
Question 10 - Output of the loop ?
            for(;;){
                console.log("loop");
            }
Answer : infinite loop 
Question 11 - What will be the console.log(typeof NaN) print?
Answer : "number"
Question 12 - Output of below statement ?
    let x = null;
    let y = null;
    console.log(x+y);
Answer : 0
Question 13 : What will be the result console.log(typeof function(){}); return?
Answer : "function"
Question 14 - What will be the result console.log(typeof function(){}()); return?
Answer : "undefined".
Question 15 - what is the default return value of a function in javascript if no return statement is used?
Answer : undefined
Question 16 - Which typeof of function executes immediately after its definition?
Answer : IIEF (immediately Invoke function)
Question 17 - Output of below statement ? 
        console.log(x);
        let x = 10;
Answer : ReferanceError 
Question 18 - how do you create an Object in javascript ? 
Answer : let Obj = {};
            let Obje = new Object();
Question 19 - how do you access a property in an object ? 
Answer : obj [property] and obj.property
Question 20 - Which method is used to add a new element at the end of an array ? 
Answer : push()
Question 21 - what will console.log([1,2,3].length) return ?
Answer : 3 
Question 22 - how do you remove 2 element from start in array ?
Answer : splice()
Question 23 - Which keyword allows block-scoped variable declration?
Answer : let and const .
Question 24 - which of the follwing is true about const variable?
Answer : they cannot be reassigned.
Question 25 - what is the Output of console.log(typeof([]));?
Answer : "object"
Question 25 - What is template literal in javascript?
Answer : A strong enclosed in backticks('')
Question 26 - what will console.log(..."hello");
Answer : "H e l l o" 
Question 27 - How do you define an arrow function 
Answer : const add  = (a,b)=> a+b;
Question 28 - what does the spread operator do ... in javascript ? 
Answer  : Combine array and Expend iterable element
Question 29 - what will be console.log([...new set([1,2,3])]); return ?
Answer : [1, 2, 3]
Question 30 - Which statement about arrow function is true?
Answer : they do not bind this 
Question 31 - Output of follow code ?
        function tryfruit(...fruit){
            console.log(...fruit);
        }
        tryfruit('apple','banana','grapes');
Answer : apple banana grapes
Question 32 - what is the purpose of javascript promise?
Answer : Handle Asynchronous operations
Question 33 - Which state in not valid for a Promise?
Answer : Running
Question 34 - Use of await keyword?
Answer : wait for an Asynchronous operations to finish before continuing the execution
Question 35 - Which method select an element by ID?
Answer : document.getElementById();
Question 36 - which event is triggered when an input field loses focus?
Answer : blur 
Question 37 - which method adds an event listerner to an element ? 
Answer : element.AddEventListner();

Question 38 - What does event.preventDefault() do?
Answer : Stops the default action of an event 

Question 39 - What is localStorage used for?
Answer : Storing data persistently in the browser 

Question 40 - Which method converts a javascript object into JSON String ? 
Answer : JSON.stringify()

Question 41 - Waht will console.log(parseInt("10px")) return ? 
Answer : 10 , beacuse String value changed into integer 

Question 42 - Which method executes a function repeatedly with a time intervel?
Answer : setIntervel()

Question 43 - How do you check if a veriable is an array?
Answer : Array.isArray(x);

Question 44 - what is the closure in javascript ?
answers : A function inside another function that has access to its parent scope .

Question 45 - Which of the following is true about closures?
Answer : closures have access to their own scope 
         closure  have access to their parent function's scope
         closures have access to global scope 

Question 46 - What will this code output? 
    function outer(){
        let count = 0;
        return function inner(){
            count++;
            console.log(count);
        };
    }

    const counter = outer();
    counter();
    counter();

Answer : 1 2 

Question 47 : Which statement about var and let is true? 
Answer : var is function scoped , let is block scoped

Question 48 : What will console.log(x); var x=10 ; output ? 
Answer : undefined

Question 49 : Which statement is used for error handling in javascript?
Answer : try .. catch
        throw 
        finally 

Question 50 : What happens if an error occurs inside the try block? 
Answer : The error is caught in the catch block 

Question 51 : What will console.log(x); inside try block with no catch or finally do ?
Answer: throw a ReferanceError 

Question 52 : Which method is used to Generate a custom error?
Answer : throw new Error() 

Question 53 : What will finally do in a try-catch-finally block?
Answer :  Always Execute 

Question 54 : OOP (Object-Oriented_Programming) in javascript which keyword is used to create a class in javascript ? 
Answer : class 

Question 55 : What is the purpose of the constructor method in a class ? 
Answer : To initialize object properties 

Question 56 : which keyword is used for inheritance in javascript?
Answer : extends 

Question 57 : Which method in a class is used to call the parent class constructor? 
Answer : super()

Question 58 : Which statement about JavaScript classes is true ? 
Answer : They are sysntatic sugar over prototypes

Question 59 : Web APIs & Asynchronous JavaScript ? 
Answer : XMLHttpReQuest 
         Fetch API 
         Axios 

Question 60 : Which method sends a GET request using Fetch API? 
Answer : fetch(url)
         fetch(url, {method :"GET" })

Question 61 : What does navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition() do?
Answer : Get's user's location

Question 62 : Which storage API stores data persistently?
Answer : localStorage

Question 63 : How you can set intervel in javascript?
Answer : setIntervel() 

Question 64 : Which method removes an element from an array?
Answer : splice()

Question 65 : Which javascript engine is used in Google Chrome? 
Answer : V8 

Question 66 : Which method converts a string into a number ? 
Answer : parseInt() 
         Number() 
         + (unary plus)

Question 67 : Which function Generates a random number between 0 and 1 ? 
Answer: Math.random()

Question 68 : Which of the following is a few falsy value in javascript ?
Answer : undefined

Question 69 : What will console.log([]==false); return?
Answer : true, 

Question 70 : Which of the following is NOT a primitive data type in javascript?
Answer : Object 

Question 71 : How do you deep clone an object in javascript ?
Answer : JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(obj))

Question 72 : What is the output of console.log(2 + "2"-1);?
Answer : 21, 

Question 73 :Which method is used to filter elements from an array?
Answer : filter()

Question 74 : Which function Combines array element into a single value ?
Answer : reduce()

Question 75 : What does the following code return ?
Answer : 

 console.log([1,2,3].map(num=> num * 2 ));

 Answer : [2, 4, 6]

 Question 76 : Which of the following is NOT an immutable operation?
 Answer : splice()

 Question 77 : What is the event loop in javascript ?
Answer : A mechanism that allows async operation 

Question 78 : Which of the following executes first in the event loop?
Answer: console.log()

Question 79 : which queue does setTimeout() use in javascript?
Answer : callback queue 

Question 80 : What will be the output of this code?
     console.log("A");
            setTimeout(()=> console.log("B"), 0);
        console.log("C");

Answer : A C B 

Question 81 : Which of the following is the best practice in javascript ?
Answer : Avoiding global variable 

Question 82 : What does "debouncing" do in javascript?
Answer : Delays function execution until a pause in events 

Question 83 : What does "throttling" do?
Answer :  Execute a function only at fixed intervel 

Question 84 : Which of the following improves JavaScript performance?
Answer : Minifying JavaScript files 
         using lazy loading
         Avoiding unnecessary DOM manipulations 

Question 85 : What is the best way to check if a veriable is null or undefined?
Answer : if(x === null || x === undefined )

Question 86 : What does document.createElement('div') do?
Answer : create a div but does not append it .

Question 87 : Which API is used to create animations in javascript?
Answer : requestAnimationFrame()

Question 88 : Which function removes whitespaces from both ends of a string?
Answer : trim ()

Question 89 : Which method removes the last element from an array? 
Answer : pop()

Question 90 : What is the output of the following code?

        console.log(myfunc);
        function myfunc() {
            return "HEllo";
        }

Answer :  get all the code 

Question 91 : Which of the following is an example of a higher-order function?
Answer : A function that returns another function  

Question 92 : Which method is used to handle asynchronous functions in javascript?
Answer : async/await 
        setTimeout
        promise.then()

Question 93 : which of the following in not true clouser?
Answer : A closure allows a function to retain access to variable from its outer scope.
        closure are created every time a function is invoked 
        closure help in data encapsulation 

Question 94 : What will be the output of the following code?

    const obj = {
        value: 42, 
        getValue: () => {
            return this.value;
        }
    };
    console.log(obj.getValue());

Answer : undefined 

Question 95 : What wiil be the output of the following asynchronous function ?
    async function foo(){
        return "hello";
    }
console.log(foo());

Answer :Promise{ "hello" }

Question 96 : What is currying in javascript?
Answer :A technique where a function is transformed into a sequence of unary (one-argument) functions.



Here’s a detailed list of MERN stack interview questions with concise, high-impact answers to help you ace your mechanical round.

🧠 JavaScript & ES6+
- Q: What is the difference between var, let, and const?
A: var is function-scoped and allows redeclaration. let and const are block-scoped; const cannot be reassigned.
- Q: What is a closure?
A: A closure is a function that retains access to its lexical scope even when executed outside that scope.
- Q: Explain the event loop.
A: The event loop handles asynchronous operations by placing callbacks in a queue and executing them after the call stack is clear.

🗂️ MongoDB
- Q: How do you model one-to-many relationships?
A: Use embedded documents for small datasets or references (ObjectId) for scalable relationships.
- Q: What are indexes in MongoDB?
A: Indexes improve query performance by allowing MongoDB to quickly locate data without scanning every document.
- Q: What is aggregation?
A: Aggregation processes data records and returns computed results using stages like $match, $group, $sort.

🔌 Express.js
- Q: What is middleware in Express?
A: Middleware functions run during the request-response cycle and can modify req, res, or end the cycle.
- Q: Difference between app.use() and app.get()?
A: app.use() applies middleware to all routes; app.get() handles GET requests for a specific path.
- Q: How do you handle errors globally?
A: Use a custom error-handling middleware with four parameters: (err, req, res, next).

⚛️ React.js
- Q: What is the virtual DOM?
A: A lightweight copy of the real DOM that React uses to optimize rendering by diffing and updating only changed elements.
- Q: What is prop drilling?
A: Passing props through multiple levels of components. Avoid it using Context API or state management tools like Redux.
- Q: How does useEffect work?
A: It runs side effects after render. You can control its execution with dependency arrays.

🌐 Node.js
- Q: What is the role of the event loop in Node.js?
A: It enables non-blocking I/O by handling asynchronous callbacks in a single-threaded environment.
- Q: What are streams?
A: Streams handle continuous data flow (e.g., file read/write) efficiently using Readable, Writable, Duplex, and Transform.
- Q: How do you manage environment variables?
A: Use .env files and the dotenv package to load variables into process.env.

🔄 Full-Stack Integration
- Q: How do you handle CORS?
A: Use the cors middleware in Express to allow cross-origin requests from the frontend.
- Q: How do you implement JWT authentication?
A: Generate tokens on login, store them in localStorage or cookies, and verify them in protected routes using middleware.
- Q: How do you deploy a MERN app?
A: Use services like Vercel (frontend), Heroku or Render (backend), and MongoDB Atlas for cloud database.

🧪 Testing & Debugging
- Q: How do you test React components?
A: Use tools like Jest and React Testing Library to simulate user interactions and assert UI behavior.
- Q: How do you test Express APIs?
A: Use Postman for manual testing and Jest/Supertest for automated endpoint testing.

🛡️ Best Practices
- Q: How do you secure a MERN app?
A: Use HTTPS, sanitize inputs, validate data, implement rate limiting, and use secure headers (helmet middleware).
- Q: What are CI/CD tools you’ve used?
A: GitHub Actions, Jenkins, or GitLab CI for automated testing and deployment pipelines.

Sources:
- GeeksforGeeks MERN Stack Interview Guide
- FullStack.Cafe’s answered MERN questions
- Internshala’s top 40 MERN interview questions

I can also simulate a mock interview with follow-up questions and scoring logic if you'd like to practice under pressure.
